Hello everyone in this lesson we will learn how to work with a team of other developers without letting
merge conflicts and get stresses out.
Here's an overview of what we'll cover.
First we'll answer the question of what is Amerge conflict.
Next we'll learn how to fix or resolve Amerge conflict.
And finally we will learn how to avoid a lot of merge conflicts in the first place.
Let's start at the top with number one.
What is a merge conflict.
Well we know that get is really good at taking two versions or snapshots of a project in squishing or
merging them together.
Right so we've used the get merge command many times to do just that.
So most of the time get can automatically merge our code from one commit state into another without
any problems.
But if we ask get to do the impossible and read our minds we'll run into something named a merge conflict.
Let me show you a couple examples of what I'm talking about.
So first we'll see an example of a successful merge that saves the day.
And then secondly we'll see an example of a failed merge that runs into a conflict.
Let's imagine we have an H DML file in our repo on get hub and let's say we have two developers on our
team working on this project.
John and Jane.
Let's imagine John pulled down the master branch to his computer and begins working on a few changes.
Let's say he adds a few new list item elements to the end of the unordered list.
Now imagine at the same time that John is working on those changes.
Jane also pulls down the master branch to her computer and before John can push his master branch back
up to get hub Jane is able to quickly add a new list item elements to the very beginning of the unordered
list and she successfully pushes her master branch back up to get hub.
This would mean that John's copy of the master branch is now outdated compared to the copy on good hub.
So when John tries to push his master branch to get hub he'll see an error message that his push failed
because his Ribault is outdated.
Now at that point all John needs to do to fix things is run a get pole to pull in the latest changes
from get hub and then it can automatically merge his outdated commit with Jane's recent commit now if
you're in the command line and get is trying to perform a merge you might be wondering what keys you're
supposed to press.
So from this screen we want to push the escape key and then type a colon and then W Q And then press
enter.
After that successful automatic merge John is now free to push his master branch up to get up get is
able to save the day and merge for us here because the lines of code that each team member added are
different from each other one added to the beginning of the list and the other added to the end.
However let's imagine it's a new day.
And on this day John pulls down the master branch to his computer and begins to work on adding his thoughts
and opinions about each number.
So he edits the four line to say that four is a good number.
He edits the five line to say that 5 has been bad luck in my life and before John can finish his work
and push his master branch up to get Herb.
Jane also starts working on her master branch and she too is adding her opinions on numbers so she edits
the four line to say four is unlucky and she edits the five line to say five is my favorite number and
Jane is faster than John.
So let's imagine that Jane is able to push her branch up to get hub before John finishes his work.
So again when John does finish his work and tries to push it to get up his push will fail because his
repot is now outdated but this time when John tries to fix things by running a get pole get will not
be able to automatically merge and save the day.
Instead John will run into a merge conflict.
The conflict is that John and Jane both want to commit different changes to the same lines of code and
get.
Has no way of knowing who to listen to John or Jane.
So in this case a computer can't decide for us as a human being.
We need to step in and manually make a judgment call and choose which code to use for those lines.
So the command line here is telling us which files have conflicts.
So let's open this file up in our text editor and see how easy it is to resolve a merge conflict so
the Get system automatically added a few lines of code to the file.
This line this line and this line.
So first head is the commit that John tried to push and following that are the matching lines of code
from James recent comment.
So we just need to do two things we need to remove the label lines that get added to the file and we
also need to decide which conflicting winds to actually use.
So let's make a judgment call.
Why don't we say that John is right about the number four and Jane is right about the number five.
So let's delete the line of code from Johns commit that was about five and let's delete the line of
code from Jane's commit that was about four.
And then let's also delete these lines that get automatically added
and once we've cleaned up the file we just save it and then jump over to the command line and we can
simply stage and commit our changes just like we normally would.
And because we resolved the conflict John would now be free to push his master branch up to get up so
you can see that emerge.
Conflict is nothing to be afraid of.
You just open up the file and make a judgment call.
But in a perfect world we wouldn't run into conflicts in the first place.
So now let's change gears in this lesson and review a few best practice tips we can follow to avoid
merge conflicts in the future.
Tip number one is to run the get pull command as often as possible.
If you're working with a team of other developers you want to constantly be pulling in their commits
from the server so that you're working with the latest code you want to make this part of your routine
so running get pool just becomes a habit.
Any time you sit down to work on your project before you actually edit any files run a get pull.
So if you get into work at 8 AM first thing running get Paul.
If you get called into a few meetings or phone calls and you don't actually get to work on the project
until after lunch well after lunch.
Run another get pool.
Tip number two and this probably goes without saying.
But simply communicating with your team can go a long way.
Talk with each other about who is responsible for which changes and which parts of the project.
Be aware of what each team member is working on for that day or week and you don't need to go overboard
and waste a ton of time chatting about what you're working on.
But you'd be surprised.
Even just having a general idea of what each person is working on will put you in a position where you
are far less likely to edit the same lines of code within the same file at the same time.
And that means less conflicts.
Tip number three is to get everyone on your team to agree on whitespace settings in your text editors.
So for example if I jump into my text editor and I press the tab key we need to ask ourselves what exactly
did my text editor do to create that space or that indebt.
Is that a single tab space character or is it actually just for individual space bar spaces or to individual
space bar spaces.
What is it.
Well in the bottom right corner of my text editor I can customize what happens when I push the tab key
so I can choose to use space bar spaces or actual single character tabs spaces and I can also choose
the tab width so whether I want to indent a little or a lot you get the idea.
Now you want to make sure that everyone on your team uses consistent settings.
Otherwise get will notice differences in you and your teammates code that you didn't even intend.
All right let's move on to tip number four.
Tip Four won't help you avoid conflicts outright but if you're working on a feature branch Tip 4 will
help you deal with any potential conflicts before it's time to actually Merge feature branch back into
Master.
So let's imagine you're working on a new feature.
Let's say on January 1st you create a new branch off of master named home page feature.
Let's imagine this branch is taking you a couple of weeks to finish.
So on January 15th you finish your feature and you want to merge your branch back in the master.
However your home page feature branch is based off the January 1st state of the master branch and since
then your teammates have been making all sorts of updates to the master branch.
Which means when you try to merge your feature branch into Master you could very well run into conflicts
and we typically want our merges into Master or our pool requests to not have any conflicts.
So tip number four is to change the way we think about the get merge command.
Let's stop viewing it as a one way street where we only merge feature branches into M..
Let's view it as a two way street where we can also merge the master branch into our feature branches.
So in our example between January 1st and January 15th every couple of days why don't we just pull down
the latest copy of the master branch and while we have our feature branch checked out let's merge master
into that branch.
If we do this often enough we will likely avoid any conflicts and even if we do run into a few conflicts
we can deal with them now so that when it comes time to actually merge our branch into master the process
will be smooth and painless and that will actually wrap up our top four tips for avoiding conflicts.
Obviously there are a ton of other strategies out there but these four are simple enough to follow and
they will make a huge difference.
Now in our next lesson we will be changing gears big time.
We will learn how to get more job interviews and more importantly once we've gotten an interview we
want to be sure that we interview well it should be a ton of fun.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.